[Music]
if you look at these months two feet you
can really understand how they dispatch
their prey so quickly as you can see in
particular the back talon is very very
long Pelin that's the main healing
weapon right and and they drive it right
to the hilt and I had a talent put
through the glove not aggressively just
uh excited and gripping and it drove the
Talon this town right to the bones and
fortunately it wasn't meaning to hurt me
you're telling me that this this Eagle
here could could actually damage me
through this cloth oh absolutely
he's not gripping at all these feet are
much much more powerful for example than
a Rottweilers jaws of the two of us hey
I am more intimidated by him than he is
of me yeah there are there oh hang on
let him hang limp yeah now you want to
rotate him so he's facing upward now
Berto regular climbs up to eagle nests
to check the health of the chicks as
part of his job and this time he allowed
us to go with him it was a unique
opportunity to check out a nest and even
perhaps see a Wild Eagle trouble was the
nest was around a hundred and twenty
feet up in a very wobbly tree
[Music]
as well as a healthy hungry turkey size
chip the nest was littered with bits of
prey many slots and monkeys all pick
clingy ways from her large framing but
we had to keep our time in the nest to a
minimum if we upset the mother it could
be very serious for us are we in any
danger here
Alberto from the mother coming back and
possibly taking offense to our visiting
her home it's quite rare it does happen
if it does we'd be in a lot of trouble
and why didn't you tell me this is more
comforting not no whoa whoa she is huge
is that she doesshe he's looking right
at your head actually I can see it claws
when the air itself becomes saturated
and the temperature is just right
rare Giants emerge
[Music]
a per wellif antis now it can grow to
the size of a man's fist
[Applause]
[Music]
so rare they can only be filmed in
captivity where their extraordinary
behavior is revealed it's still a
mystery as to exactly how they track
down their food but one thing is for
sure this snail has unusual taste and
revolting table manners
[Music]
it's mouth envelops and suffocates the
earth world
[Music]
it sucked down like spaghetti
for anything bigger it's got 6,000 teeth
ready to shred the next meal in the
supersaturated environment this
specialized smell is the ultimate
predator many caves are like islands cut
off from the outside world and from
other caves
[Music]
this isolation has resulted in the
evolution of some various strange
creatures they are the cave specialists
troglobites animals that never emerge
from the caves or see daylight
[Music]
these troglobites from Thailand are
possibly the most specialized creatures
on earth so they live only in cave
waterfalls the entire population of
these cave angel fish seems to be
restricted to just two small caves it's
the same story with other troglobites
there may well be less than a hundred
texas cave salamanders in the wild
[Music]
and the Belizean white crap is another
creature that is unique to just one cave
system living in perpetual darkness they
have all not only lost the pigment in
their skin but also their eyes it takes
thousands of generations for eyes to be
lost so these species must have been
isolated for a very long time but the
blind salamander has other highly
developed sensory organs receptors in
the skin detect minut movements in the
water made by its prey
external gills help it to breathe in
water that is particularly though in
oxygen
[Music]
the cave angel fish feed on bacteria in
the fast-flowing water keeping their
grip with microscopic hooks on their
fins food is often in short supply and
troglobites like the crab have to
survive on whatever washes into the cave
from outside
[Music]
a salamander might not encounter food
for several months so when something
does come along it can't afford to miss
it it's astonishing that these
extraordinary cave dwellers managed to
survive at all
compared parent fish nearly a metre and
a half in length their jaws are so
powerful they can bite through rock when
they descend to feed the reef itself is
under threat
they are indiscriminate feeders taking
both rock and coral alike in their quest
for Algy
these fish play a large part in the
erosion of the reef the rock and coral
they swallow emerges later is a fine
sand on a single reef they can produce
tons of it every year
this soft sand forms the tropical
beaches that we find so alluring over
time the sand builds up to form an
island which is then colonized by
animals and plants
[Music]
trees take root birds arrive
the guano from thousands of terms which
have chosen to nest here enriches the
sandy soil which then can support more
plants